# Push_swap

Push_swap is a project focused on sorting a stack of integers using a predefined set of operations while minimizing the total number of moves. The goal is to implement efficient sorting algorithms with attention to time complexity. The project consists of two parts: push_swap, which generates the sorting instructions, and checker, which validates that the instructions sort the stack correctly.

# Objective

- ```Efficient Sorting```: The push_swap program sorts a stack of integers using stack operations, aiming to minimize the number of steps.
- ``Error Handling``: The program validates input, ensuring no non-integer values, or out-of-range numbers are allowed.
- ``Bench Marking``: To pass, the program must sort 100 integers in under 700 operations and 500 integers in under 5500 operations.
- ```Bonus Program```: The checker program validates whether the set of sorting instructions generated by push_swap successfully sorts the stack.


# Usage

To compile the program use:

```
make
```

To compile the checker use:

```
make bonus
```

# Usage example
The push_swap program takes a list of integers as input, and outputs the smallest possible set of operations needed to sort them in ascending order.
Example

Input:
```
$> ./push_swap 5 6 1 4 10 9
```

Output:

```
pb
pb
pb
rb
pb
rb
pb
pb
rb
pa
rrb
pa
pa
pa
rrb
pa
pa
```


If the input is invalid (e.g., non-integer values, duplicates, or out-of-range numbers), the program will display:

Input:
```
$> ./push_swap 9 k 5 8
```

Output:
```
Error
```

# Checker Program

The `checker` program verifies if the operations generated by the `push_swap` program correctly sort the stack. It takes the same input as `push_swap` and simulates the execution of the operations.

Example

input:
```
$> ./checker 3 2 1 0
rra
pb
sa
rra
pa
```

Output:
```
OK
```

If the operations do not correctly sort the stack, it will print:

Input:
```
$> ./checker 3 2 1 0
sa
rra
pb
```

Output:

```
KO
```

## Error Handling

If the input arguments are not integers, the program outputs ``Error``.

If the operations are not correctly formatted or invalid, ``Error`` is displayed.
